The entertainment industry is big and loved. Meaty programs with moving plots always make a place in peoples’ heart. These days, people are glued to watching various TV series from different genres. Some of them that you should watch are: Skeem Saam: Created by Winnie Serite, Skeem Saam is a regular broadcast on SABC1 in South Africa. Some of the main stars are Clement Maosa, Thabo Mamabolo, and Patrick Seleka. First premiered on SABC1 on Thursday 13th October 2011, the show has garnered a lot of accolades. Several seasons have come since then. The series is around the township ‘Turfloop’ and it talks about the complex lives of a few characters of the township. It is focused on these characters together along with the lives of people they associate with. Isidingo: It is a South African soap opera which has English dialogues mostly. The series first premiered on SABC 3 in 1998. It was created by Gray Hofmeyr and it is based on a popular soap opera made by Hofmeyr, ‘The Villagers’ which was broadcast during the apartheid period in South Africa. Uzalo: Uzalo is not any usual TV series but a telenovela. It was made by AK Films of a very well known Bollywood actress, Aruna Irani. It is broadcast on SABC1 in South Africa. Some of the major stars are Glen Gabela, Leleti Khumalo, Dawn Thandeka King, Nay Maphalala, Khaya Dladla, Sihle Ndaba, Ntokozo Dlamini, Masoja Msija and Gugu Gumede. This serial is about two affluent families in Kwa-Mashu. There are two families, the Mdletshe family that presides over the Kwamashu Kingdom Church. The other is the Xulu family which runs a car theft syndicate. These two families are connected with each other as the eldest sons of the two were switched during birth. The backdrop is the period of Nelson Mandela’s release from prison. It is filmed in KwaZulu-Natal’s KwaMashu F-section. There is something special about this show and it is that the team used local infrastructure and talent to showcase a practical portrayal of life. This is why it is very unique as compared to other television programs. Isibaya: Based on the backdrop of the taxi industry, the show comes on Mzansi Magic. It is about two young lovers who have been separated by a century-old feud between two highly affluent and powerful families. Currently airing 4th season, the feud has been showcased realistically. Aforementioned are a few series that you can go for and entertain yourself with meaty scripts, characters, and locations. Watch out!