As the proud host of the DEMO Africa Conference the City of Ekurhuleni is pleased to announce that the much anticipated conference will kick off from Thursday, 23 to 24 November at Birchwood Hotel and Conference Centre in Boksburg.DEMO Africa isn’t called the largest venturing event for nothing. As the launch pad for emerging technology and trends on the continent, it attracts people from around the globe who come to experience Africa’s most exciting innovations. The DEMO conference originated in North America and showcases new products and technologies coming to market. It has now established a powerful international network of launch events including China, Singapore, Brazil and Africa.“Shortlisted companies or start-ups which launch at DEMO Africa have already gone through a rigorous selection and mentorship process to get them prepped for market and investment,” says Harry Hare, executive producer, DEMO Africa.This year, the City of Ekurhuleni hosts this premier conference to identify brand new and exciting technology start-ups which are worthy of further investment. And, it’s thanks to the Department of Small Business Development – the headline sponsor – as well as the City of Ekurhuleni and Microsoft, each of whom play a vital role in the success of DEMO Africa.At least 180 start-ups have already been launched and connected to investors, technology buyers and the media since DEMO Africa’s inception in 2012 at the World Economic Forum for Africa in Ethiopia. So, what can delegates attending the DEMO Africa conference expect? Vanessa Clark from MobiFlock perfectly sums it up as “a whirlwind of inspiration, constructive feedback, endorsement and meeting face-to-face with some of the leading minds on the continent. The format is cleverly worked out to keep even the most attention-deﬁcit entrepreneur gripped, and there is ample time for networking.”It’s exciting because of its conference format which means each selected start-up gets six minutes on stage to show how its product will positively impact the world. And the delegates get a live show on how the technology being demonstrated can be used meaningfully. For the start-ups DEMO Africa is where they not only get the opportunity to showcase their innovations, it is also a way for them to network with the right types of people such as corporate developers and acquirers, trade and mainstream media, venture and angel investors, as well as buyers and entrepreneurs. The conference takes place on 23-24 November and is preceded by intense DEMO Africa Bootcamps and investors summits. Apart from the renowned speakers and panellists there will be 30 new innovative products launched to the world for the ﬁrst time and 15 content-rich sessions.DEMO Africa is one of the flagship initiatives of LIONS@frica, a public-private alliance aimed at enhancing and deepening the start-up and innovation ecosystems of targeted fast-growing African economies. In other words, LIONS@frica works to connect African start-ups to the global ecosystem. “To be a delegate at the DEMO Africa conference is to witness something meaningful and inspiring. To get the opportunity to watch so much future potential and talent in technology, while connecting with a network of powerful business people, makes this a dynamic experience,” Hare says. With partners like Africa Technology Foundation, African eDevelopment Resource Centre, African Development Bank, The World Bank Group (InfoDev), US State Department, Microsoft, Intel and Google, expect to be exposed to some of the world’s most inspiring technology brands while connecting with some of Africa’s most exciting future innovators, at DEMO Africa 2017.