SINGAPORE/HONG KONG, November 29 – Fitch Ratings’ outlook
for bank performance in Asia-Pacific (APAC) is decidedly less negative
than at the start of 2017, with the improved economic backdrop likely to support
loan demand and asset quality. The benign environment has the potential to mask weakening
lending standards in markets where credit is growing
particularly strongly, but any fallout is unlikely to be significant in 2018. APAC is generally benefitting from the global upturn in trade
and growth. Many of Asia’s emerging markets have ambitious infrastructure development plans that
should boost employment and domestic demand, while fiscal policy is turning more
expansionary in some developed markets. We expect profitability to remain
relatively stable in this benign environment, supported by sound lending growth,
fee-income diversity and a drop in asset-quality pressures, particularly from
the resources sector following the stabilisation of commodity prices. Offsetting pressures are likely to come from competition, higher funding
costs and implementation of IFRS 9. Costs to enhance operational efficiencies could also
feed through, such as investment in technology. It is too soon to assess if lending standards have held up in markets where
there has been sustained high credit growth, but banks have been taking
incrementally greater risk in some segments – such as SMEs and consumer lending,
and through expansion offshore – as they try to overcome competitive pressures. Meanwhile, high and rising property prices remain a common theme across most of
APAC’s developed economies, as well as some emerging economies such as China,
Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam. That said, a significant deterioration in asset quality is unlikely in 2018,
given the prevailing economic conditions. We also believe that
regulators have remained focused on containing risks, especially where
concentrations exist. In the property sector, for example, regulators have taken steps to
address potential vulnerabilities. A continued tight regulatory stance
should also help protect banks against spillover effects from potential property
price shocks, which is particularly relevant for Hong Kong, Australia and New
Zealand, while in some countries – Singapore and Taiwan – it has already helped
to cool the market. The prospect of interest rates rising further in the US could have negative
implications for banks in markets with higher leverage, more volatile exchange
rates, or with higher exposure to fixed-income securities. Rising rates often support interest margins as deposits reprice more slowly than
lending rates, but risks can also stem from higher debt-servicing burdens, softer
equity or property market sentiment, or a reduction in domestic liquidity. Japanese banks face less pressure as a result of the Bank of Japan’s reduced
emphasis on the negative-interest-rate policy. Banks in most APAC markets generally have capital ratios that provide adequate
buffers against risks, although there are some exceptions. It is
unclear if the injection of USD32 billion into India’s state banks will be
sufficient to deal completely with asset-quality issues and support a ramp-up in
lending. Chinese mid-tier banks are facing capitalisation pressures from
asset-quality issues and strong on-balance-sheet credit growth. The implementation of IFRS 9 in most markets in 2018 could lead
to a modest decline in regulatory capital ratios and an increase in
provisioning. However, our surveys suggest the initial financial impact is unlikely to
be significant, and it could be potentially offset by releasing higher
regulatory allowances for expected losses in some markets. Further detailed information can be found in the report “Fitch
2018 Outlook: Asia-Pacific Banks”, which can be accessed on
www.fitchratings.com or through
the link above. Contact:
Jonathan Cornish
Managing Director
Financial Institutions
+852 2263 9901
Fitch (Hong Kong) Limited
19/F Man Yee Building
68 Des Voeux Road Central
Hong Kong
Sabine Bauer
Senior Director
Financial Institutions
+852 2263 9966
Dan Martin
Senior Analyst
Fitch Wire
+65 6796 7232 Media Relations: Leslie Tan, Singapore, Tel: +65 67 96 7234,
Email:
leslie.tan@fitchratings.com; Wai-Lun Wan, Hong Kong, Tel: +852
2263 9935, Email:
wailun.wan@fitchratings.com. The above article originally appeared as a post on the Fitch
Wire credit market
commentary page. The original article can be accessed at
www.fitchratings.com.
All opinions expressed are those of Fitch Ratings. ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND
DISCLAIMERS.
PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS
LINK:
HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN
ADDITION, RATING
DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE
ON THE AGENCY’S
PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS,
CRITERIA, AND
METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH’S
CODE OF
CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE
FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE,
AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE
FROM THE CODE OF
CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS
RELEVANT INTERESTS ARE
AVAILABLE AT HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/SITE/REGULATORY. FITCH
MAY HAVE
PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS
RELATED THIRD
PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD
ANALYST IS BASED
IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY
PAGE FOR THIS
ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Copyright © 2017 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and
its
subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone:
1-800-753-4824,
(212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or
retransmission in whole or
in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved.
In issuing and
maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including
forecast
information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives
from issuers and
underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be
credible. Fitch
conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information
relied upon by it
in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains
reasonable verification
of that information from independent sources, to the extent such
sources are
available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The
manner of Fitch’s
factual investigation and the scope of the third-party
verification it obtains
will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its
issuer, the
requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the
rated security is
offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability
and nature of
relevant public information, access to the management of the
issuer and its
advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party
verifications such as
audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals,
actuarial reports,
engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided
by third parties,
the availability of independent and competent third- party
verification sources
with respect to the particular security or in the particular
jurisdiction of the
issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch’s ratings
and reports
should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation
nor any
third-party verification can ensure that all of the information
Fitch relies on
in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and
complete.
Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the
accuracy of the
information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering
documents and
other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch
must rely on the
work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to
financial
statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters.
Further, ratings
and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently
forward-looking
and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that
by their nature
cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any
verification of current
facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or
conditions that
were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued
or affirmed.
The information in this report is provided “as is” without any
representation or
warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant
that the report or
any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a
recipient of the
report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness
of a security.
This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established
criteria and
methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and
updating. Therefore,
ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and
no individual,
or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or
a report. The
rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than
credit risk,
unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged
in the offer or
sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship.
Individuals
identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not
solely responsible
for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for
contact purposes
only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus
nor a substitute
for the information assembled, verified and presented to
investors by the issuer
and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities.
Ratings may be
changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole
discretion of Fitch.
Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings
are not a
recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do
not comment on the
adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a
particular
investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments
made in respect to
any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers,
guarantors, other
obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees
generally vary from
US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent)
per issue. In
certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued
by a particular
issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or
guarantor, for a
single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000
to US$1,500,000
(or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment,
publication, or
dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a
consent by Fitch to
use its name as an expert in connection with any registration
statement filed
under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services
and Markets Act
of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any
particular
jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic
publishing and
distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic
subscribers up to
three days earlier than to print subscribers.
For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch
Australia Pty Ltd
holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no.
337123) which
authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients
only. Credit
ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be
used by persons who
are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act
2001