There is no denying the fact that fashion has the world under its clutches and the only way to survive is to follow. Before it gets any more intense, we’d like to say that the winters are just round the corner. This is perhaps one of the most significant and vigilante time for fashionista from all over the worlds. As the chilly breeze flows in with dull and cold morning, here’s your guide to being the sunshine on all such occasions. We have a list of the top 8 fashion trends from some of the best names in the fashion of 2017, that you cannot miss out on this winter. 1. Pink is the new black: The color pink is blowing its magic worldwide. The color pink is the new black for our trending spring/summer collection. You can get much of color variation whether it has to be a vibrant or a blocked one. 2. Flower power: Is it the ultimate spring collection of fashion wardrobe. Varies from one trending outfit to another. Flower prints can be done on different-different clothing material. 3. Sleeveless sweaters: Style back from the 1970s is now an upcoming trend of 2017. Style the sweaters with shirts, makes you feel warm and comfortable at the same time. 4. Jumpsuits all day: Move out with your loved ones in jumpsuits. Jumpsuits are for both summers and winters if color coordinated well. Pick them in some bold colors like black, red, burgundy or white as well. 5. The cutouts: Playing hide and seek in cut out dresses. Recently, Hollywood style diva Kylie Jenner stunned everybody in her purple cut out dress. The diva looked hot in the look she carried for herself. 6. Sequins and Shimmer: The trendy night fever to carry. Sequin always adds a glimpse to your look. Hollywood darling Anne Hathaway was looking stunning in her sequin dress in her latest flick. You too can carry the shimmer for night parties or dinner dates very well. 7. Puffy Shoulders: The puffy shoulders have been a great inspiration to us. Time then and now it has been in trend and will be in the upcoming years. As a matter of fact, the fashion show by the very popular Vogue comprised some really amazing puffy shoulder dresses for upcoming fashion trends of 2017. 8. Print em’ all: Winter is coming and the new fall collection by Bebe is all you need to pull through. With bold & sexy outfits and dressed designed with lots of embellishments, you’re surely in for a treat. Whether you’re looking for floral prints, animal prints, bold detailing or fine finishing, Bebe’s Fall 2016 is all about. You could make 2018 way too stylish by following these simple trends at the apparel front.