Mental toughness: The immense ability to remain extraordinary in important occasions is a common feature among all great players of football. A good example of this is Ronaldo, the man who nobody knew before the 2002 World cup. There are several other players in the game who have similar instances of ‘being tough in the face of adversity’. Some of them can be- Suarez, Van Persie, Cristiano Ronaldo, Carlos Tevez etc. Lionel Messi had a Growth Hormone Disorder(GHD) that kept him stinted to a height of just 4’2″ back in the day. But even then Argentinian clubs like River Plate were interested in him. However, since they could not afford to pay $900 a month for HGH injections, they did not get Messi. It was Carles Rexach of Barcelona that took a chance with Messi and him paid the bills for his treatment. Otherwise. Who knows what would have been of the gifted player with his pituitary problems, poor vision, and low immunity. Initially, Messi was homesick for a while but he soon and adjusted himself to a new continent. On the football front, as we have witnessed often, Messi doesn’t take insults easily and refuses to go down when tackled hard or being kicked at or having his clothes pulled while he’s racing with the ball. Speeding past the defenders in a flash, there are very few legal ways of tackling Messi. However, it is one thing to try a speculative long shot when in an important occasion, it is another to pick the ball in front of the entire defense and midfield and waltz through the opponent team and score in an intimidating atmosphere. Messi is the man for those kinds of heroic shenanigans. Physical uniqueness: A lot has been said about Messi’s low center of gravity is a major factor in his playing style. There is no disputing this but if his height is a huge factor, then Messi is no more different than Ribery, Sneijder, Mata etc. from the past. The list is a very long one and it comprises if a lot of great players, but each of them was different in their own way- just like Messi is. Messi’s style of play comprises of extremely fast running and his sudden bursts of acceleration when being on the ball. This is something that leaves defenders astounded. The best part is that if you’re looking for something Messi does beautifully and at a much higher frequency than anyone else, it could be something as simple as the chip. The fascination and efficiency for lobs/chips are one of the unique things about Messi – they are as varied as the man’s exemplary skills. He is inconsistent with ‘powerful’ shots and goes for placement over power. To goalkeeper who tries getting closer, get to helplessly see the ball going over their heads in slow-motion. Most players can score with lobs, some can even do it from the touchline but no one can quite get it like Messi does so many times, and in even many ways.