For ages now, football is being played by people across the globe. Also, there are many people who call it soccer too. Wondering what is the difference between the two? Football and soccer are different yet they have some similarities. Football is actually a common name given to most of the games where there is a ball and it involves foot. Different types of football include gridiron football, association football, rugby, Australian football, and Gaelic football. The game, association football is commonly called as soccer. In football, there are two teams having approximately 11 to 18 players playing within a specified area. In order to score a point, the footballer is supposed to reach out to the opponent’s field and score. Talking about soccer, the ball needs to be moved into the opponent team’s region by kicking it. Many a time, either the torso or the head are used to move the ball. In this case, only the goalkeepers can use the arms and hands to stop the ball. In every game, there has to be a way in which the ball should move. It may take place by kicking, carrying, using the entire body, or simply, by passing the ball. In soccer, you kick the ball in the goal area. Though, it is not permitted to use hands to move the ball. The ball used in soccer is of spherical shape. Similar ball is used in Gaelic football. In games like rugby and American football, the ball is round. On the other hand, the ball has two pointed ends for Canadian and American Football. As long as scoring is concerned, the system is same. Whichever team scores the highest is declared to be the winner. In case of a tie, penalty shootouts are given and many a time, the game is declared a draw. In the UK, both football and soccer mean the same game but in the US both the games are different. Across the globe, football is the most popular sports and teams like Arsenal, Manchester, Real Madrid, Chelsea etc. savor major patriotism among people. Players like Diego Maradona, Ronaldo, Beckham and much more are literally worshiped. Maddening craze can be seen among people during football world cup. Till eternity, the fever for football will live on.