NAIROBI, Nov 21 (Reuters) – The following company announcements, scheduled economic indicators, debt and currency market moves and political events may affect African markets on Tuesday.
EVENTS:
*NIGERIA – Central bank holds monetary policy meeting – 1330 GMT.
*SOUTH AFRICA – Reserve Bank starts three-day monetary policy committee meeting (to November 23).
*ZIMBABWE – ZANU-PF to launch impeachment motion against Mugabe.
GLOBAL MARKETS
 Asian stocks edged higher on Tuesday as investors took heart from further evidence of strength in the global economy, while the dollar hovered near a one-week high against its peers thanks to higher U.S. yields and a floundering euro.
WORLD OIL PRICES
Oil prices were little changed on Tuesday as the impact from expectations of an extended OPEC-led production cut was cancelled out by rising output in the United States.
EMERGING MARKETS
For the top emerging markets news, double click on
AFRICA STOCKS
For the latest news on African stocks, click on
SOUTH AFRICA MARKETS
South Africa’s rand weakened on Monday, bowing to a firming dollar and growing concerns over possible credit downgrades of the country’s local-currency bonds to ‘subinvestment’ at the end of the week.
SOUTH AFRICA POLITICS
South Africa’s ruling African National Congress (ANC) should get President Jacob Zuma to stand down as head of state after a party conference next month because like Zimbabwe the country urgently needs a change of leader, a senior ANC official said.
NIGERIA ECONOMY
Nigeria’s economy grew 1.4 percent year-on-year in the third quarter, the statistics office said on Monday, extending its slow climb out of its first recession in a generation.
KENYA POLITICS
Kenya’s Supreme Court on Monday upheld the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta in last month’s repeat presidential vote, paving the way for him to be sworn in next week.
ZIMBABWE POLITICS
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe faces the start of impeachment proceedings on Tuesday that could see him ousted within the week, against the backdrop of a military takeover dubbed “Operation Restore Legacy”.
CONGO MINING
Three Glencore Plc GLEN.L executives, including the head of its copper group, have stepped down from the board of subsidiary Katanga Mining Ltd KAT.TO after an internal review identified weaknesses in its financial reporting controls, Katanga said on Monday.
SENEGAL OIL
Oil exploration company Cairn Energy CNE.L is in talks with BP to sell a 30 percent stake in its deepwater SNE field offshore Senegal, which could be valued at around $600 million, banking sources and a Senegal oil ministry source said on Monday.
GAMBIA OIL
Australian oil and gas explorer FAR Ltd FAR.AX said on Tuesday that an independent study of two of its offshore blocks in West Africa’s Gambia found potential for a total of 1.1 billion barrels of oil.
BURKINA FASO/LIBYA POLITICS
Burkina Faso’s foreign minister said on Monday it had recalled its ambassador to Libya over a report that black African migrants were being auctioned as slaves there.