Audrey Hepburn once said,”The beauty of a woman must be seen from in her eyes because that is the doorway to her heart, the place where love resides.” Beauty pageants are a way to pay respect to beauties of all kinds. Candidates participate from different parts of the world and every candidate is a sight of delight, confidence, and talent. Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters made the entire nation proud by becoming Miss Universe, 2017. Held at The AXIS theater at Planet Hollywood casino-resort on the Las Vegas Strip, the event witnessed 92 contestants. The top 13  finalists were from Sri Lanka, Ghana, Thailand, Spain, Ireland, USA, Brazil, Canada, Philippines, Croatia, Great Britain, Venezuela, and China. A tall, slender and picturesque Demi slayed the platform with her charm and drop-dead gorgeousness. She is a 22-year-old business management graduate and represented South Africa. As an educated woman, she strongly believes in equality of women in terms of remuneration. She was also asked what she believed in most and what she would carry on as Miss Universe. In response, she mentioned that she believes in being confident as an individual and she aims at helping women in overcoming their fears. 2017 also witnessed the most contestants ever. This time there were first representatives from Nepal, Cambodia, and Laos. So, you can say, Demi had a lot of competition as compared to the previous years. Apart from a year-long salary, Demi has received a luxury apartment in New York City till her reign. From South Africa, she is the second woman to win the crown. Demi has a half sister who is disabled and Demi considers her as her biggest motivator to do things in life. In free time, Demi loves to play golf and one can see her stroking high in her Instagram posts. She also loves trail running, hiking and road racing. She has a special liking for things like handmade cards and scrapbooking. With her victorious event, it is certain that the country is full of talented people and a lot of historic moments are waiting to happen.