HONG KONG, November 23 – Fitch Ratings has affirmed Tianjin Free Trade Zone Investment Holding Group Co., Ltd.’s (Tianjin FTZIH) Long-Term Foreign- and Local-Currency Issuer Default Ratings (IDRs) at ‘BBB+’ with a Stable Outlook. A full list of rating actions is at the end of this commentary. KEY RATING DRIVERS Links to Tianjin Municipality: Tianjin FTZIH’s ratings are credit-linked to Fitch’s internal assessment of China’s Tianjin Municipality, the company’s sponsor. The municipality fully owns Tianjin FTZIH, has strong oversight of the company’s financial performance, and the company is of strategic importance to the municipality. These factors result in a strong likelihood of extraordinary support from the municipality to the company, if needed. Therefore, Tianjin FTZIH is classified as a credit-linked public-sector entity under Fitch’s criteria. Tianjin’s Strong Creditworthiness: Tianjin municipality has a satisfactory budget performance, diversified socio-economic profile and strategic importance as one of the two core cities in the Bohai Rim Economic Zone in northern China. Tianjin’s tax base is derived from a relatively diversified economy. Strategic Importance Assessed at Stronger: Tianjin FTZIH is an integrated body of Tianjin Municipality’s flagship economic development zone – Tianjin Port Free Trade Zone (Tianjin Port FTZ) – and plays an important role in implementing the Tianjin government and Tianjin Port Free Trade Zone Administration Committee’s (Tianjin FTZAC) blueprint for Tianjin Port FTZ.  Tianjin FTZIH is the sole entity developing large-scale urban infrastructure projects, providing utilities services, and inviting investment and forming joint ventures with outside parties on the government’s behalf. In 2016, Tianjin FTZIH declared CNY1,680 million in dividends to its shareholders, or 18% of its revenue. Legal Status Assessed at Mid-Range: Tianjin FTZIH is registered as a state-owned limited liability company under Chinese company law, yet it is subject to bankruptcy procedure. It is wholly owned by Tianjin FTZAC and is directly under the supervision and control of Tianjin State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission and supervised by the Tianjin government. Control Attribute Assessed at Stronger: The company’s board members are mainly appointed by the Tianjin municipal government and its major projects need the municipal government’s approval. The company’s financing plan and debt level are also closely monitored by the municipality. Tianjin FTZIH is required to report its operational and financial results on a regular basis to the Tianjin municipal government and Tianjin FTZAC. Integration Attribute Assessed at Stronger: Tianjin FTZAC provides funding to the company through subsidies or capital injections to ease the company’s debt servicing pressure, enhance its financial flexibility and support its capex. Fitch expects revenue from the public sector to continue to account for about 25% of income and capital subsidies to be provided to Tianjin FTZIH, alongside past year contributions, to complement internal sources and borrowing. Moderate Financial Profile: Tianjin FTZIH’s financial profile has been characterised by sizeable capital expenditure and high leverage in the past three years. Fitch believes this trend will continue in the medium term, driven by the ongoing infrastructure improvement in Tianjin Port FTZ. RATING SENSITIVITIES An upgrade of Fitch’s internal credit assessment of Tianjin Municipality as well as a stronger and/or more explicit support commitment from the municipality may trigger a positive rating action on Tianjin FTZIH. Significant weakening of Tianjin FTZIH’s strategic importance to the municipality, dilution of the government’s shareholding, and/or weaker linkage with Tianjin Municipality, may result in a downgrade. A downgrade could also stem from a weaker fiscal performance or increased indebtedness of the municipality, leading to deterioration in the sponsor’s internally assessed creditworthiness. The full list of rating actions is as follows: Tianjin Free Trade Zone Investment Holding Group Co., Ltd. Long-Term Foreign-Currency IDR affirmed at ‘BBB+’; Outlook Stable Long-Term Local-Currency IDR affirmed at ‘BBB+’; Outlook Stable Hongkong Baorong Development Limited (Tianjin FTZIH’s wholly owned offshore subsidiary) USD500 million 3.625% senior unsecured notes due 2018 affirmed at ‘BBB+’ Contact: Primary Analyst Lorraine Liu Associate Director +852 2263 9929 Fitch (Hong Kong) Limited 19/F Man Yee Building 68 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong Secondary Analyst Terry Gao Senior Director +852 2263 9972 Committee Chairperson Raffaele Carnevale Senior Director +39 02 87 90 87 203 Media Relations: Wai-Lun Wan, Hong Kong, Tel: +852 2263 9935, Email: wailun.wan@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com Applicable Criteria International Local and Regional Governments Rating Criteria – Outside the United States (pub. 18 Apr 2016) https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/878660 Rating of Public-Sector Entities – Outside the United States (pub. 22 Feb 2016) https://www.fitchratings.com/site/re/877128 Additional Disclosures Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form https://www.fitchratings.com/site/dodd-frank-disclosure/1032804 Solicitation Status https://www.fitchratings.com/site/pr/1032804#solicitation Endorsement Policy https://www.fitchratings.com/regulatory ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY’S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH’S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS RELEVANT INTERESTS ARE AVAILABLE AT HTTPS://WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM/SITE/REGULATORY. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2017 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch’s factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch’s ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided “as is” without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001. 