The Horn of Africa is a peninsula in Northeast Africa and it borders Kenya. This region encompasses places like Ethiopia, Djibouti, and Somalia. Despite the fact that this region is quite prone to droughts and famines, Horn Of Africa has a lot to offer you. There are a few places that you can check out if you are here. Massawa
Way back in 1897, the place was the capital of Italy’s colony. This is one of the very few locations where tourists are permitted to trot freely in Eritrea. Here, you will find a picturesque seaside and get to see traditional East African architecture blended with colonial Italian. It is rare as, during that time, there was only one African colony Libya. What you get here are – excellent seafood and resorts. Maskali Islands
There are two islands Maskali and Moucha Island in the Gulf of Tadjoura that are several miles away from Djibouti city. If relaxation and peace of mind are all that you want, you should go for this place. Plenty of coral reefs await you and you can bask in the glories of the marine life. Also, if you are adventurous then you can go for scuba diving and snorkeling. Since the water in the Red Sea is warm, the marine life is said to be healthy. Hargeisa
It is one of a kind place. A capital of Somaliland, this unrecognized state was declared independent from Somalia in the year 1991. It is unique because since its independence it has maintained its own government, money, army, and stability. There was a time when foreigners could get a Somaliland passport too. Even though you may not get any traditional sites to check out, you can still soak up in the culture of Somaliland. Lake Assal
Lake Assal happens to be the third lowest place on Earth, it is at 150 meters (500 feet) below the sea level. The salinity level is 10 times of the Dead Sea and you can say that it is the saltiest place on Earth. There is wildlife abounding the region and you can find birds, antelopes, camels and different types of fauna along the banks. To go here, all you need to do is hire a car in Djibouti City. The more you learn, the more your urge for this country. There is so much to offer.