Ayanda Mdluli and Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Political parties and lobby groups are gearing up to take multiple actions against the alleged corrupt practices of Markus Jooste, the CEO of Steinhoff. On Monday, Black First land First said it planned to take action against “all those who helped Jooste in his corrupt activities”. The South African Communist party also released a statement calling for the arrest of those behind the billions of rands lost when Steinhoff shares crashed on the JSE. Commenting on the action to be taken, BLF’s national spokesperson Zanele Lwana said they want action to be taken against all leaders at Steinhoff, “from his deputy to the entire Board of Directors and to the auditing firm Deloitte that gave Steinhoff a clean audit thus clearing them of the corruption which in turn has cost government over R12 billion. “ According to Lwana, this is the biggest scandal of the year. BLF says it has already sent a letter this morning to the Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, to amongst other things: “Probe probable contraventions of the provisions of finance regulations by the South African Revenue Services (SARS), Public Investment Corporation, auditors, chartered accountants and directors. Report the auditing firm Deloitte to the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA). Report all the directors of the board to the Institute of Directors (IoD) with a view to having the directors declared unfit to be directors. Make public all the beneficiaries of the PIC money including asset management companies and the extent of the exposure. Suspend Steinhoff’s entire Board of Directors, including its newly appointed interim executive chairperson Christo Wiese, and its executive advisor Pieter Erasmus. Report the matter to the Financial Services Board (FSB). Do all that is necessary to bring to book Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi for their role in the loss of over R12 billion in pension benefits,” explains Lwana. BLF has also written to the Standing Committee on Finance to convene an urgent hearing on the Steinhoff corruption saga. We are talking over R12 billion here! BLF will also open a criminal case on Tuesday against the culprits based on a sworn affidavit. Jooste and his accomplices must account. An important thread running through the Steinhoff corruption is the role of former Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas. BLF is demanding transparency on how the two gave government funds to their friend Jayendra Naidoo. Gordhan and Jonas must be held responsible for the loss of over R12 billion of state funds and must pay part of the money back themselves. Commenting on behalf of SACP, Mhlekwa Nxumalo, the organisation’s spokesperson said:  “This week’s crash of Steinhoff shares on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), representing a loss of anything between R135bn and R180bn, is no accident. It is the inevitable outcome of the cowboy capitalism of Christo Wiese, Markus Jooste, and their cohorts.” He said the collapse of Steinhoff exposed Wiese’s pyramid schemes of conning banks and assert investment managers by ballooning the real figures of his entities. “For years Christo Wiese has been the darling of South Africa’s financial media and of their dial-a-quote commentators. Until a week ago they were still lauding his Midas touch, his ability to acquire battling companies and miraculously turn them around. Now the truth is beginning to emerge about just how this business-models wizardry has been achieved. Essentially, it’s a sophisticated pyramid scheme conning banks and asset investment managers by inflating the real value of his acquisitions and concealing actual debt in off-balance accounts. There has also been tax dodging and massive, cleverly engineered capital outflows from South Africa,” he said. Nxumalo lashed out at the media over how it has handled Wiese with kid gloves since the news that Steinhoff was being investigated in Germany. “Our local media gave Wiese oodles of air-time and column inches to airily dismiss these as rumours. (Much as Koos Bekker was afforded a full front page of Sunday’s Business Times to scoff at evidence that he has been paying the Guptas to block government’s attempts to end MultiChoice’s crushing monopoly of pay-TV). Despite the local adulation, the likes of Bekker and Wiese have long been involved in dodgy dealings. As the SACP reminded the South African public earlier this year, it was Wiese who was caught at London City Airport in 2009 with £674 520 in used bank notes in his luggage on the way to the tax haven of Luxemburg,” said Nxumalo. He said Wiese has now destroyed some R7-10bn of the Government Employees Pension Fund and threatened thousands of local jobs. He called on law enforcement agencies to act decisively and arrest him for his role in the matter. “This time there must be real consequences. We are calling for a full investigation by the criminal justice system,” said Nxumalo. @karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161 @ayandamdluli28 ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161