Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- A young woman who attempted suicide after being gang raped is receiving psychological help according to close friends. This week it emerged that the woman who works as a customer service representative at MultiChoice was raped by her a colleague. However, it has been clarified that her colleague did not rape her. The deputy chairperson of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Gauteng, Mandisa Mashego on Friday said that even though she was not raped by her colleague, MulticChoice was responsible for the trauma she suffered after the ordeal. “South African Depression and Anxiety Group are fully on board with a long term intervention that will commence immediately. Multichoice tried to fire her while she was attending court. They subjected her to insults and abuse. The trauma she endured post rape at work was horrific. Multichoice is complicit to what happened,” Mashego said. Mashego said: “She is been under a lot of strain because of what is happening at work. She sometimes knocked off at night.” Jackie Rakitla, General Manager for Corporate Affairs at Multichoice said that they supported the victim since the rape incident. “It is incorrect to say she was neglected. We’ve been providing our employee with support over the last three years to deal with this traumatic incident.” He said the safety of their employees was important. “Our employees who work in the contact centre work various shifts, with the last shift ending at 11 pm. We take the safety of our employees very seriously, we have a shuttle that picks employees up from inside the premises of our buildings and drops them off at a taxi rank,” Rakitla said. MultiChoice said it launched an investigation into the matter. The 28 year-old woman was kidnapped and gang raped in 2014 while travelling home after knocking off at night. The young woman was recently hospitalised after attempting to take her own life. Musician and activist Ntsiki Mazwai also revealed that she had been receiving complaints from other young women who also said that they suffered sexual harassment at MultiChoice. “This happened two years ago and in the past two years this girl has been subjected to victimisation. They discriminated against her. They tried to get rid of her and they all need to answer. I’ve been getting DM’s about senior managers who are exploiting women. The women in call centre are saying that men in management are predators,” Mazwai said. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161