JAKARTA/KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 8 (Reuters) – Thousands of
protesters in Muslim-majority Indonesia and Malaysia joined
rallies on Friday to condemn Washington’s decision to recognise
Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, as authorities tightened security
outside U.S. embassies.
Leaders in both Asian countries have joined a global chorus
of voices condemning U.S. President Donald Trump’s move.
Several thousand protesters, some shouting anti-U.S. slogans
and burning an effigy of Trump, gathered in front of the
American embassy in the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur.
In Indonesia, hundreds of protesters mostly clad in white
were arriving outside the U.S. embassy in Jakarta, capital of
the world’s biggest Muslim-majority country. Some wore checkered
scarves and waved Palestinian flags, while others shouted
“Allahu Akbar” (God is greatest).
“We have prepared personnel and patrols to secure the U.S.
embassy. We are expecting between 500 and 1,000 demonstrators,”
said Jakarta police spokesman Argo Yuwono.
The U.S. embassy in Jakarta advised its citizens to avoid
areas where there were demonstrations and said its consulate in
Indonesia’s second-biggest city Surabaya had suspended public
services on Friday.
Indonesia has been a long-running supporter of the two-state
solution in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and there have been
public demonstrations in support of Palestine in recent years.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo on Thursday urged the
United States to reconsider its decision and instructed his
foreign minister to summon the U.S. ambassador for an
explanation.
In Malaysia, leaders from the ruling party United Malay
National Organisation (UMNO) and the popular right wing
Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS), both of which represent the
majority ethnic Malay-Muslims, led the rally and representatives
of the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas are expected to join.
Protests are also expected in South Asia. Pakistan’s major
Islamist party Jamaat-e-Islami has announced rallies in all
major cities after Friday prayers.
President Trump said on Wednesday that the United States
would move its embassy to Jerusalem in the coming years.
Protests have already broken out in the West Bank and the
Gaza strip as the Islamist group Hamas urged Palestinians to
launch a fresh uprising against Israel.
The status of Jerusalem is one of the thorniest barriers to
a lasting Israeli-Palestinian peace. Its eastern sector was
captured by Israel in a 1967 war and annexed in a move not
recognised internationally. Palestinians claim East Jerusalem
for the capital of an independent state they seek.