 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 15 – Ride hailing company Uber
was obligated to turn over to a U.S. federal judge a letter from
a former employee that told of the company’s “fraud and theft”
and mentioned evidence of stolen trade secrets nailed “like a
scalp” to the wall, a court official said Friday. Special master, John Cooper, assigned to a lawsuit against
Uber Technologies Inc by Alphabet Inc’s
self-driving car unit, Waymo, released a report on Friday
stating the company should have produced the letter and was
wrong in keeping it from the court. The letter, from former Uber security analyst Richard Jacobs
alleging Uber engaged in illegal and unethical competitive
tactics and had stolen trade secrets, is at the heart of Waymo’s
lawsuit against Uber. The letter was sent to Uber’s in-house lawyer in May and
shared with executives and board members, who could easily
access it, special master Cooper said in his report. “This needle was in Uber’s hands the whole time,” he said. Cooper’s determination marks another setback for Uber in a
case in which the judge has blamed Uber for withholding evidence
and masterminding a coverup. U.S. District Judge William Alsup will determine what, if
any, consequences Uber faces for not turning over the letter. The 37-page letter from Jacobs was released publicly for the
first time Friday, partially redacted, although its contents had
been discussed in detail during court testimony last month. Because Uber had not disclosed it, the letter turned up just
last month when the U.S. Department of Justice notified Alsup
about it. The Justice Department has opened a criminal
investigation into the matter. Waymo sued Uber in February, alleging it had stolen trade
secrets from Waymo’s self-driving car designs, and estimates
damages in the case at $1.9 billion. Uber has said no Waymo
designs have been used in its cars and rejects the financial
damages claim. In the letter, written by Jacobs’ lawyer, the ex-Uber
employee said Uber’s security team had a unit that “exists
expressly for the purpose of acquiring trade secrets, codebase,
and competitive intelligence,” and a second unit that
“frequently engages in fraud and theft.” His letter says that Uber stole trade secrets from Waymo,
but in court testimony last month he recanted that statement. Jacobs’ letter also describes surveillance operations in
which Uber employees bugged meetings with transportation
regulators and recorded executives of rival companies, and says
that former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick directed these operations. In a statement on Friday, Uber said it has not substantiated
all of the claims in Jacobs’ letter, but “our new leadership has
made clear that going forward we will compete honestly and
fairly, on the strength of our ideas and technology.” Dara Khosrowshahi replaced Kalanick as CEO in August, and
has been critical of Uber’s behavior under its old leader. Jacobs named Mat Henley, who is on medical leave from Uber,
Nick Gicinto, a manager on the security team, as instrumental in
Uber’s clandestine intelligence-gathering operation. Security
chief Joe Sullivan, and legal director Craig Clark, who were
both fired last month for their role in concealing a massive
data breach, were also involved, the letter said. Sullivan said in a statement on Friday his team “acted
ethically” and an attorney for Clark said has he “acted
appropriately at all times.” Matthew Umhofer, an attorney for Henley, Gicinto and other
members of Uber, said: “Jacobs’ letter is nothing more than
character assassination for cash.” Jacobs was forced to resign in April after a demotion, and
sent the letter the following month. He struck a deal with for
Uber a $7.5 million settlement, and Jacobs continues to work for
Uber as a consultant. -(Reuters)