Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has received a backlash over his comments that he believes Khwezi was raped. The African National Congress Youth League eThekwini Region accused Ramaphosa of using the issue as a political toy to boost his own credibility. “The ANC Youth League although disappointed by this reckless and unlawful statement, is sadly not surprised. The matter relating to this case was long decided in a court of law whose decision was never appealed and for Mr Ramaphosa to arrogate himself the standing of an appellant judge in a kangaroo court, is most unfortunate. We, therefore, condemn these utterances with the contempt they deserve. The Youth League condemns the use of this rape case as a political toy in some grandstanding scheme to gain credibility by Mr Ramaphosa,” spokesperson Thulisa Ndlela said on Friday. Ramaphosa made the statement on Thursday evening during an interview on 702. Ndlela lambasted Ramaphosa for using rape to ‘score cheap political points’. “Rape is a serious matter in this country and to use it to score cheap political points is an insult to the many victims who have gone through this traumatic ordeal. We call upon Mr Ramaphosa to respect the law and as one of those involved in the drafting of the constitution, to remember what it is all about,” said Ndlela. Zuma stood trial for the alleged rape of Khwezi in 2006 but he was found not guilty. The MK Military Veterans Association also rebuked Ramaphosa and questioned the timing of his comment. Spokesperson Carl Niehaus said they were not impressed with the comments he made. “As you know the matter of Khwezi and the court case that the President was charged and not found guilty happened before Mr Ramaphosa accepted the position of Deputy President to serve under President Zuma. If he had the belief that Khwezi had been raped, we must ask ourselves why he accepted the position to serve under the President,” said Niehaus. He added that if it’s only now that Ramaphosa has come to the conclusion that Zuma raped Khwezi but before held a different opinion, it would appear as though he was using the matter to advance his campaign. “We are also asking ourselves if he, having held this belief, did he take any action to protect her in this period or before she passed away. Our impression is that the Deputy President is behaving in a very expedient manner. He is using this matter on Khwezi now as a campaign tool. He is abusing the soul and memory of Khwezi for his political ambitions. We find that this is an immoral position that he has taken and find that it smirks of a person without a political or moral backbone,” Niehaus said. The Presidency also responded to the statement and said the rape allegations against President Zuma were properly considered by a Judge of the High Court. Spokesperson Dr Bongani Nqulunga said the having evaluated the totality of the evidence, the court acquitted Zuma of the rape charges. “The Presidency affirms the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the primacy of the courts as the final arbiters in disputes in society,” he said.