Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG – Fikile Mbalula says the only thing that can stop Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma from becoming the next ANC president would be fraudulent activities. Despite Cyril Ramaphosa having a slight lead following branch nominations, Mbalula told Africa News24-7 that they will not allow anything or anyone to rob her of the opportunity to make history by becoming the first female president to lead the liberation movement. “The only thing that can stop Nkosazana right now is fraud. We will work very hard to curb fraud in this conference including by the electoral commission. We will never allow fraud here. Everybody in the ANC agrees on Nkosazana,” he said. Mbalula took to Twitter on Tuesday to throw his weight behind Dlamini-Zuma. He told South Africans to brace themselves for change when she ascends to the position and replaces President Jacob Zuma. He added that her track record spoke for itself and believes she is the right person to move the country forward.  Thank you Kzn for the nomination …..Nkosazana will make an excellent President my view #Amandla!!! — RSA Minister of Police (@MbalulaFikile) December 4, 2017  “South Africa brace yourself for change, this woman has demonstrated to us. She changed Home Affairs, she changed health department, became the first woman to be at the helm of the African Union. As a person, she does have her weaknesses but they are outweighed by her strengths,” he said. Dlamini-Zuma and Ramaphosa are the two front-runners to take over from Zuma at the upcoming conference. They have both accumulated nominations in the thousands as they seek to convince branches that they are the correct people to lead the party. Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma will be ANC President first female President #historyMade brace yourselves angina Mona angina nzondo ngiyayidumisa I Anc — RSA Minister of Police (@MbalulaFikile) December 5, 2017   Mbalula maintained that Dlamini-Zuma was the right person to lead and her past encounters with cigarette and Pharmaceutical companies when she was Minister of Health has better prepared her to be a tough and firm person, something that will be required to effect change in the country. He added that her election will go a long way in addressing the issue of patriarchy. “We are not in a cosmetics revolution, we are in a revolution wherein which we have to tamper with the status quo and when we ask our people to vote for the ANC, there must be history made. Nkosazana will be the first woman to lead the African National Congress. We need to break patriarchy. Breaking that comes with the history of Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to be the first woman president,” he said.  Nkosazana is uncorruptible she is decisive go and ask cigarette companies and pharmaceutical companies… In her we see the revolution resuscitated….#ContinuityAndChange — RSA Minister of Police (@MbalulaFikile) December 5,  @karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161  