Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG – Gauteng education department authorities are scheduled to meet with a group of disgruntled parents who are opposed to the appointment of a new black principal at Noordgesig primary school. The meeting which is set for Tuesday comes after parents at the school protested last week Friday, claiming that they were not consulted about the new appointment. Provincial education department spokesperson, Steve Mabona described situation at the school as worrying. “This is concerning. You can’t justify it whether you like it or not. There are racial connotations here. The School Governing Body (SGB) in this instance, did everything properly. They followed the process during the appointment. The SGB has been operating in the school. We are talking about people who are not in the SGB, who come under the pretext of being parents,” Mabona said. The meeting was initially scheduled for Monday, but had to be postponed after the parents demanded to meet with the provincial education MEC Panyaza Lesufi or the Head of the department. “The meeting could not go ahead because the demand was that they want to meet with the HOD or the education MEC. Our officials could not find  out what was expected of them. The intention was to seek grievances so that we know what’s really happening and have a way forward. We will facilitate a process where the HOD will speak with them. We are looking at Tuesday afternoon,” he said. The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu), General Secretary Mugwena Maluleka urged the department to ensure that classes were not disrupted at the school. “This is very regrettable especially in a country that has fought against racism. We reject this backwardness. The department should make sure that schooling is not compromised. There’s a group of people going around influencing schools and sowing a seed of racism,” Maluleka said. In July this year, a similar incident took place, when parents also protested against the appointment of a black principal at Klipspruit secondary school. Parents disrupted classes at the school demanding the appointment of a coloured principal. In 2016, a group of disgruntled parents alleged that a black principal was irregular appointed ahead of a suitable coloured person.