Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Outgoing Secretary General of the ANC Gwede Mantashe says the party should not be found flatfooted on any issue going forward. He made the statement as he was presenting his last organisational report before the new leadership takes office. Mantashe said the party has a responsibility to tackle any issue that confronts it. In his report to delegates, Mantashe said he was very frank on the issue of Nkandla, the Public Protector’s reports. “Central to the message was that if the ANC is flatfooted on any issue, it leaves the vacuum for the leadership of society. The ANC must be able to express a view on any issue, it doesn’t matter how painful it is,” he said. Mantashe said delegates confronted uncomfortable topics in a bid to find answers on how the organisation could turn the tide and reclaim lost ground. He called on members to return the party to its glory days of being a leader of society. “In the plenary, we went through all the difficult issues that we were confronted with, whether it was the Nkandla case, whether it was the Public Protector’s report, or whether it was the ConCourt judgment or the current debate on State capture. The ANC must take firm decisions and provide leadership for society. If the ANC is in doubt, society runs out of leadership and anybody can howl and lead society to any direction,” he said. The party has taken a serious dent in the last few years under President Jacob Zuma’s tenure with allegations of corruption in government and never-ending court cases. That resulted in the ANC losing three major metros in the last municipal elections. Quizzed on how the party would fare in the 2019 elections, Mantashe said they would not allow the party to disappear into obscurity. They would fight to re-awaken the sleeping giant. “The reason we convene policy conference are efforts to re-strengthen the organisation. Where we have lost ground, we want to regain it. We are working on regaining lost ground. We don’t want to be relegated to a rural party. We want to reclaim the metros, improve where we deteriorated,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161