JOHANNESBURG, December 7 – The South African Police Service has made a breakthrough in solving the numerous murders linked to the notorious Glebelands Hostel in KwaZulu-Natal with the arrest of four suspects – one of them a policeman. More than 90 murders have been linked to hired gunmen thought to live at the hostel, however not a single person has been convicted of the murders. On Thursday acting KZN police provincial commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, welcomed the arrest of four men, one of whom is a policeman, saying: “Our detectives have been working very hard to bring down those behind the killings and to ensure our investigations meet up to the high standard that is expected by our courts”. Langa added: “We also once again wish to thank members of the community who did eventually come forward and work with our investigators to unmask the perpetrators behind the violence. We want criminals to know that they will not enjoy a peaceful festive season as long they are on the run from police”. Over the years Glebelands Hostel has gained a bad reputation for incidents of violent crimes which included murders and attempted murders. Initial investigations revealed that a lot of the killings were orchestrated in an organised fashion. “It then became very apparent to police management that a different approached had to be employed in dealing with the Glebelands Hostel situation,” explained Brigadier Jay Naicker, KZN police spokesperson. Naiker said Povincial Organised Unit investigators together with crime intelligence embarked on many months of tedious investigation, hostel infiltration and information gathering in trying to get to those responsible for the atrocities at the hostel. On Wednesday several specialised police units embarked on a predawn raids at Harding and Glebelands Hostel in search of wanted suspects. The teams split into two groups, one group proceeded to Harding at KwaMachi, where they arrested a 29-year-old suspect. The second team went to Block 51 in Glebelands Hostel, where they arrested a 45-year-old suspect. At Block 42, police arrested a 34-year-old suspect. “During a search of the room of the 34-year-old suspect, a police cap, two police reflectors jackets, a state issued laptop as well as a number of internal police correspondences were seized,” said Naiker. “On Thursday, 7 December 2017 at 06:00, a team proceeded to the Durban Central Police Station, where they arrested a 37-year-old police officer who is also linked to the shootings in Glebelands. The arrested men will be charged accordingly and will appear in court soon.” – African News Agency (ANA)