Ayanda Mdluli Steinhoff International Holding’s stock continued its downward trajectory to record lows on Friday morning, prompting the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) and the National treasury to come out and call for further investigation and appropriate action to be taken against the company should it be found guilty of fraud and corruption. Steinhoff’s stock has gone from R17.61 on Thursday, to just R5.50 by the Friday morning of 08 December 2017. This, after its CEO Markus Jooste resigned under a cloud of fraud, theft and corruption charges levelled against the company by German authorities. The giant retailer has lost more than R130 billion in market cap while its subsidiary STAR has lost R22 billion. Other subsidiaries such as PSG, lost R6 billion while KAP has lost its market cap of R21 billion. In total, the company and its listed subsidiaries have lost R184 billion, making it one of the worst crashes in the markets by a company in SA since the dawn of democracy. Furthermore, Lancaster Group, Steinhoff’s Black Economic Empowerment partner which is owned by business man Jayendra Naidoo appears to have been exposed by the fall pushing it deep into the financial doldrums. Naidoo has since gone to ground, along with the rest of Steinhoff and its subsidiaries, leaving shareholders and investors in the lurch. The PIC, which has a 10% stake in Steinhoff saw losses of R16 billion worth of government employee’s pensions wiped off the books. Sources close to the dealings with the PIC and Steinhoff allege that Naidoo, who is also a close friend of Pravin Gordhan, the former finance minister, received R9 billion worth of funding for a 2% stake in the free falling entity. The loan was provided by Mcebisi Jonas who was deputy minister of finance at the time. The loan has since increased to R10.1 billion. The 2% BEE stake in Steinhoff is solely owned by Naidoo and has not benefitted any other blacks as far as ownership in Steinhoff is concerned. When all these factors are taken into consideration it appears that government’s total exposure to the Steinhoff mess is sitting at R26.1 billion. The deal between Steinhoff and Lancaster Group is alleged to have been advised by Sipho Mseleku, bringing it to fruition towards the end of last year.  Mseleku has advised the PIC on six major deals in recent years. He is also believed to be a close friend of Dan Matjila, the CEO of the PIC. The PIC did not address to or respond adequately to these allegations even though a detailed media query was sent to them. Responding to questions sent by Africa News 24-7, Deon Botha, the institution’s head of corporate affairs said: “The PIC applies the highest standards of corporate governance in administering its own affairs. As an institutional investor, the PIC expects the same commitment from all investee companies. Allegations of accounting irregularities by Steinhoff International Holdings N.V., that have exposed the company to possible criminal investigations, are serious concerns for the PIC. The PIC’s exposure to Steinhoff is approximately 10% of shares in issue.” He added: “At this stage the PIC is awaiting further information from investigations by domestic and international regulators and law enforcement agencies, to decide on an appropriate course of action,” said Botha. The PIC made no reference on how it planned to recoup the funds lost in the disastrous investment it made in Steinhoff. Sifiso Buthelezi, the deputy minister of finance and non-executive chairperson at the PIC referred all questions to the PIC as well as the finance minister Malusi Gigaba. Gigaba said he has requested the retirements fund regulator at the Financials Services Board, PIC and the Government employees’ pension fund to provide him with report on the extent of exposure of retirements fund. He hoped that these reports would give assurance that the interests of the shareholder are protected, including retirement and savings funds. “Considering the recent call for corporate South Africa to provide accurate reporting of its financials, the minister will also have discussions with other appropriate regulators, like the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA), to assess any likely lapses in financial and auditing reporting,” read a statement from his office.” When asked if the South African Revenue Service (SARS) would investigate Steinhoff or any of its subsidiaries for tax evasion, SARS told Africa News 24-7 that the Tax administration act’s section 69 forbids SARs from disclosing confidential information of a tax payer. The act says information subject to legal professional privilege vested in SARS and information supplied in confidence by a third party to SARS could reasonably be expected to prejudice the future supply of similar information if disclosed. To be continued Ayanda.mdluli2africanews24-7.co.za @ayandamdluli28