Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG– Former State Security Minister David Mahlobo has confirmed that President Jacob Zuma was indeed poisoned and he received medical treatment in Russia. This follows the revelations contained in Gayton McKenzie’s explosive book Kill Zuma – By any means necessary where he details at least seven attempts to assassinate Zuma. “I can confirm that I’m aware that there was an incident of poisoning in 2014. We had to get the President to be assisted in Russia,” Mahlobo to Africa News24-7. His admission follows widespread condemnation of McKenzie’s interview on ANN7 where he spoke of the poisoning incidents. McKenzie revealed that his book contains information of how one of the ANC’s top 6 leaders tried to poison Zuma by offering him a plate of food laced with poison. The top six is made up of Zuma, Cyril Ramaphosa, Gwede Mantashe, Jessie Duarte, Baleka Mbete and Zweli Mkhize. “President Zuma knew about the plot and asked his daughter to bring him lunch. One member then went to him to taste the liver, but he could see that it had not been touched despite the person claiming it tasted nice. Comrade Jessie Duarte ran to the kitchen to ask them, have you prepared liver and the liver was not on the menu. A toxicologist tested the liver only to find out that there was poison in it. The President was told that five elephants could have died from eating that liver,” said McKenzie. He also revealed that other party members were poisoned and received medical attention in Russia as well. They were Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza and KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu. He said they were given Ricin poison, but he declined to say which poison was used on Zuma. Only one attempt has been in the public space, that of his wife MaNtuli. “There was near-fatal tampering to the presidential jet. One of the president’s most trusted bodyguards was operating on strict instructions to murder the old man,” he said. Quizzed on why Zuma was taken to Russia and not treated in South Africa, Mahlobo said the abilities of the Russian medical staff to detect the poison in his system made the country a viable option. “The Russian medical staff were very good in detecting the poison that was used. The most important thing is that indeed he was poisoned, he went to Russia and he got assisted by the medical stuff. One of the things I will never discuss as the former minister of intelligence are the details. I know of the incident of 2014 and I know we had to intervene that he gets help which he did. The one of DD is public knowledge that he was poisoned, and we also know he was poisoned,” said Mahlobo. McKenzie’s book was released digitally on Tuesday, but the PDF version is already doing rounds on social media. @karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161