JOHANNESBURG, December 8 – The Life Esidimeni arbitration committee was left unimpressed on Thursday, with suspended Gauteng health head of the department, Dr Barney Tiego Selebano’s numerous attempts to avoid testifying at the hearings.
Selebano’s urgent application to set aside a subpoena ordering him to appear before the arbitration hearing was dismissed by the South Gauteng High Court on Monday. Immediately after that, the doctor tried to appeal the ruling which was also dismissed.
Previously, an independent ad hoc tribunal dismissed his appeal against the recommendations contained in Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba’s  Life Esidimeni report.
Selebano and suspended director of mental health, Dr Makgabo Manamela were implicated after the ombudsman released a report on the 143 patients who died after being moved to unlicensed non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
“You have not accepted the report of the ombudsman, even though your employer has…You have done everything not to come testify, you have not resigned and not you have taken a 10 month salary,” Solidarity advocate Dirk Groenewald said to Selebano.
Selebano said he did not suspend himself and added that he was given a letter stating that he can appeal if he wished to do so.
“I was exercising my constitutional right,” he said.
It was revealed during the hearing that Selebano has earned about R800,000 during his suspension.
Retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke who is chairing the arbitration interjected and told Selebano that the government accepted blame over what happened.
“You want to appeal the findings of the ombudsman, this shows you are not regretful, that is what counsel is saying.”
Speaking in his defence, Selebano said: “The state only accepted now”.
Moseneke retorted: “Why do you say you are remorseful?”
Selebano responded saying: “Remorse is an emotional state, you look and say if I had an opportunity to do things differently, I would have.”
Selebano further explained that he helped raise money to help families bury their loved ones, he said the department did not take that responsibility.
Groenewald put it to Selebano that if he was reasonable HOD, he would not have approved the project plan.
“Have you heard about risk management in a project, those things must be known to an HOD,” said Moseneke
“I admit, the plan has gone wrong,” said Selebano looking exhausted.
Earlier, the HOD, who is a medical doctor, admitted that he signed documents of the project plan without verifying whether facilities met the criteria to take care of patients.
It also emerged that he signed a termination contract between the department and Life Esidimeni on October 2016 when more than 80 patients were already dead.
However, Selebano vehemently denied this and insisted that he signed the contract in October 2015.
When concluding her cross examination, advocate  Lilla Crouse for Legal Aid, told Selebano that at the end of the hearings she will argue that he was not remorseful.
“If you were sorry, you would come running here to tell your story,” Crouse said.
Selebano is expected to conclude his testimony on Friday.
Former  MEC of health in Gauteng Qedani Mahlangu who resigned on the wake of the damning report is expected to testify late January 2018.
– African News Agency (ANA),