BEIJING, Dec 7 (Reuters) – China should prioritise financial
stability above development goals, as pursuit of regional growth
targets and helping firms avoid heavy job losses had led to a
surge in debt, particularly at local government level, the
International Monetary Fund said. Noting a lack of coordination and inadequate systemic risk
analysis, in a report released on Wednesday, the IMF also
recommended the formation of a financial stability sub-committee
comprising the central bank and three financial regulatory
agencies. Expansionary monetary and fiscal policies aimed at propping
up employment and growth had led to a surge in debt among weak
corporates and local government entities looking to prevent
businesses from failing and their economies from floundering,
the IMF said. “The apparent primary goals of preventing large falls in
local jobs and reaching regional growth targets have conflicted
with other policy objectives such as financial stability,” the
IMF said. “Regulators should reinforce the primacy of financial
stability over development objectives,” the fund said. China’s credit-to-gross domestic product (GDP) ratio is now
very high by global standards and consistent with a high
probability of financial distress, the IMF said, citing an
estimate from the Bank for International Settlements. While China has been taking steps to address its debt risks,
reining in excessive credit growth will require a de-emphasis on
high GDP projections in national plans that have spurred local
governments to set high growth targets, the fund said. But the near-term prioritisation of social stability seems
to depend on credit growth to sustain financing to firms even
when they are non-viable, it said. Sources have told Reuters that China is likely to keep this
year’s GDP growth target of “around 6.5 percent” in 2018 even as
Beijing steps up a campaign, now in its second year, to control
systemic financial risks. The IMF said the sub-committee it has recommended should
report to Beijing’s new Financial Stability and Development
Committee. Chinese banks, while meeting Basel requirements, should
gradually increase their capital to create buffers to absorb
potential losses that can be expected during China’s economic
transition as credit is tightened and implicit guarantees are
removed, the IMF said. There are widespread perceptions of implicit guarantees, the
fund said, with banks often compensating retail investors for
losses and lenders assuming that loss-making state-owned
enterprises or financial intermediaries will be bailed out. Banks also need to hold more liquid assets, the fund said. The IMF’s assessment was based on findings by a mission that
visited China several times this year, as well as earlier visits
in 2015 and 2016. The mission met with senior Chinese leaders
and officials from regulatory and government bodies including
the central bank. The IMF report is part of the fund’s Financial Sector
Assessment Program, established in 1999, that assesses the
resilience of a country’s financial sector to shocks and
contagion. The first such assessment for China was published in
2011.
(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Editing by Simon Cameron-moore)