Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG – Orlando Pirates and SuperSport United shared the spoils at the Orlando Stadium on Tuesday with both teams guilty of wasting opportunities. The game was characterised by missed opportunities with strikers seemingly having left their shooting boots at home. The men from Pretoria were let off the hook in the ninth minute when the defence failed to decisively deal with a ball in their box from a corner but Thamsanqa Gabuza was wasteful at the far post. Shortly afterwards Jeremy Brockie was presented with a chance to put Matsatsantsa in the lead but he too could not find the back of the net. The two sides tried to get going with United having more success in putting together a string of good passes but the same could not be said for the Soweto giants who were guilty of losing the ball at every turn. SuperSport United dominated the majority of the first half but the team was let down by poor finishing in front of goal. Clayton Daniels squandered a glorious opportunity when he went for power instead of a simple tap-in. He ballooned his shot over the crossbar in what could only be described as a defender’s clearance towards the end of the half. Pirates started the second stanza a bit better and hit the post in the 62nd minute. Thabiso Kutumela wiggled his way into the box and behind the defence and connected with a cross from Luvuyo Memela but the ball hit the post and went out. Both teams threatened but none could manage to break the deadlock. In the 74th minute, Pirates was gifted an opportunity to take the lead when United’s shot-stopper Reyaad Pieterse miscued his clearance. Mpho Makola was put through on goal from the mistake and managed to beat Pieterse but the ball went agonisingly wide of the far post. Sifiso Myeni came close to breaking his former side’s hearts in stoppage time when he fired a shot from distance but once again the net did not budge. Neither team could manage to get that elusive goal and the spoils had to be shared. karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za @karabongoepe1