“Lines are not written into the human hand without a reason; they emanate from heavenly influences and man’s own individuality.”
– Aristotle The brain is made up of a billion nerve cells. These are connecting our hands to the spinal cord and nerves, which further extend to the peripheries of our bodies. A nerve impulse is a constant and two-way flow. The lines in our hands show a reflection of our ideas, thought process, wisdom, grasp, morality, and personality. The analysis of hands or palmistry is as much a science as it is an art. A prolific amount of research has amounted to the study of fingerprints that could be used as a diagnostic tool in medicine. Modern palmistry is an amalgamation of three subjects:
1. Chiromancy- Study of lines within the palm
2. Chirognomy- Study of genetic hand shape, finger shape, fingernails, texture and consistency
3. Dermatoglyphics- Study of skin ridge patterns and formation found on fingertips and within the palm themselves. Through the analysis of lines, hand shape, mounts and other important signs from the hand, palmists are able to provide people with an accurate reading. The motive of the hand analysis is to provide you solutions that can change your future by your own efforts. “Tell me what do you see?” A palm reader or palmist will hear this question almost every time he or she begins a reading. The primary thing is that in order to do a thorough reading, the palmist needs to look at both hands. However, for a fast reading, palmists usually concentrate on the dominant hand. For a right-handed person, the left hand is considered his/her hand of past life, and the right hand is considered to represent present life situations. Although palmists have recently questioned this assumption, with the claims of an equal distribution of information spread across both hands. At the time of our birth, both hands are similar. But as we begin as we grow and age, the dominant hand reforms itself(faster than the passive hand) to behave as the source of our ideas and inhibitions. Our daily life activities writing, eating, self-defense, and expressions of love are communicated through this hand. In due course of time, the dominant hand adapts and makes note of these changes in our sub-conscience. Even the passive hand grows and matures, but that happens at a much slower rate as compared to the dominant hand. This is the reason why old-school palmists consider the right hand to depict the present and the left hand to depict the past. Prediction made by the palmist is true and believable around 80–95% of the times. It basically depends on the practice and experience of the palmist. Nowadays, the common trend is that just about anyone could get their hands on an introductory book to palmistry and within no time claim to be a prophet. However, in reality, Palmistry works like a doctorate degree. Once you have studied your prescribed course, your practice and further study updates define your expertise on the subject.