Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Baleka Mbete has gone against the directives of the ANC Woman’s League and has backed Cyril Ramaphosa to lead the party when President Jacob Zuma steps down. She made the announcement on Saturday night when proceedings of day one of the conference adjourned at Nasrec. “What we’re announcing is that we publicly endorse comrade Cyril Ramaphosa. We have been talking and we agree on how to approach the issues of maximising unity in the organisation. In particular, moving towards 2019 because it would be wrong for us to have a limited approach to what we have come to do here,” she said. Questioned if she would not receive backlash from the league, she appeared unfazed by her decision to snub their preferred candidate. “I’m not afraid really. In fact, as we are here, we are here as cadres, individual members of the ANC who have something to contribute and I’m sure we will work together with comrade Nkosazana and every other candidate but in the main, we are talking about within the key leadership we want to work together. We have always worked together with comrade Ramaphosa,” she said. Mbete added that the major part of what they went to Nasrec to do was to look at how best they could mobilise South Africans and help to re-organise themselves to deliver better for them and ensure a victory at the 2019 elections. She also spoke of the good working relationship she has with Ramaphosa which played a part in her decision to support him. “Therefore, we think that we should always not think very much here and now but we should think far as we have a broader responsibility to our people. We have worked together for a long time and in how we have discussed issues that affect the movement and South Africa, we have agreed a lot more,” said Mbete. She appeared confident of Ramaphosa emerging victoriously, indicating that the numbers were looking good. His closest competitor for the position of president, Dlamini-Zuma was dealt a heavy blow when courts nullified results of the conferences from provinces supporting her. KwaZulu-Natal and Free State provincial conferences endorsed her, but the elections of Provincial Executive Committee members were nullified by courts when disgruntled members challenged them. It was the same story in Bojanala region of the North West where the REC was ruled null and void. The party’s NEC decided on Saturday morning not to allow those structures to vote in the conference in a bid to protect its integrity. Despite having indicated that the numbers were looking good, she appealed to delegates to look at the future, particularly to the impact of their decision on the 2019 elections. “It does look positive. In my address, I focused on not just looking at conference but to say what is it strategically that we are working towards for our people so that we can deliver for South Africa. It was within that context that we had the discussion,” she said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161