Zodidi Mhlana As the country’s summer initiation season begins in several regions, communities and parents have been urged to be involved in the process in order to root out mushrooming illegal initiation schools. Even though there has been a reduction in the death toll in provinces such as the Eastern Cape and Limpopo, the Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs department (Cogta) said that it would be identifying and clamping down on illegal schools. “It takes communities to raise responsible young men who can contribute positively to the future of our country. Parents have to be involved in this process of initiation from the beginning to the end as this will assist to save many promising lives,” Cogta’s deputy minister, Obed Bapela said. The Eastern Cape reduced initiates deaths from 26 to 12 during this year’s winter initiation season. The province has lost more than 700 initiates in the past decade. About 11 deaths were recorded in Mpumalanga early this year. During this summer, scores of boys are expected to undergo the rite of passage in the Eastern Cape, Western Cape and the North West, where summer initiation is practiced. Cogta said that it would working with law enforcement agencies to tackle challenges that might arise including “kidnappings, illegal and unregistered schools.” Some of those rescued were under the age of 17 years. More than 20 young initiates were rescued from initiation schools in Gauteng during the 2017 winter season. At least, 19 surgeons and traditional nurses were arrested during the winter season in the Eastern Cape. Physical abuse and negligence at some initiation schools have also been identified as serious problems. Some experts have blamed parents and guardian’s unwillingness to play a meaningful role to prevent initiation deaths. Few people have been convicted over the last years due to the fact that parents are reluctant to press charges against people implicated in initiation deaths. zodidi.mhlana@africanews24-7.co.za @Mhlana