We’re talking about one of the greatest players in rugby history. In the sport of Rugby, the name of Jonah Lomu is a force to be reckoned with. He was the size of a lock with the pace of a winger. 110kg of fury charging at typical 80kg men make them nothing more than speed bumps. He trashed all the opponents in his way. He was one of the most powerful and fastest (together) in the world. This combination of quickness and strength made him one of the best players in the world. But the real question still remains that then why was he so famous. To compare his skill with other great players from around the world: Mathieu Bastareaud 120 kgs, plays center for France.
Sonny Bill Williams – 108 kgs, plays center for NZ (currently playing 7s in run-up to Olympics)
Nemani Nadolo – 130kgs, Wing/ center for Fiji and Crusaders in Super Rugby
JP Pietersen – 109 kgs – Wing for South Africa
The Tuilagi family – Alesana and Manu
Israel Folau – a lightweight at 103 kgs, Centre and Fullback for Australia.
George North and Alex Cuthbert from Wales. In Lomu’s day anyone over 100 kgs and of a certain height generally played in the forwards, in fact, I think he started out or at least played some rugby as a loose forward. That’s just how things were done. The backs of the day were generally smaller and lighter (say 80 – 95 kgs). Since then, however, youngsters with size and speed have been encouraged to develop the skills necessary to be a great back-line player and now your average international back weighs in between 90 and 105kgs. I don’t think anybody has ever really matched both, but there are certainly a few men who have come close since Jonah changed the game. These men listed above are all wingers, but the fact remains that the general athleticism of the game has vastly increased since it turned professional. For example, Pierre Spies, the former South Africa no. 8, looks like your typical back-row forward but also possesses astonishing speed. He wouldn’t look out of place on the wing.