This is one of the essential point for our holistic health care is weight loss. While it is just one of the many positive changes that one experiences in just one month’s time by making use of these simple exercise of chewing the food properly. On an average, a person should normally 20-30 minutes for every meal i.e. breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The chewing process breaks down the food into tiny morsels and makes it semi-liquid. This make is it easier to digest. We must remember that our intestine is not a grinder and that it cannot grind food. Grinding is the job the teeth. Digestion is a rather demanding activity of the body that requires a great deal of energy, especially if it is forced to digest semi-chewed food. Chewing properly makes it possible for our stomachs to function efficiently and break down our food quicker. Saliva contains a digestive enzyme, hence the longer we chew the more time this enzyme has before it starts to break down the food. One such enzyme is lingual lipase, an enzyme that helps in breaking down fats. Saliva also helps to lubricate our food so it’s easier on our esophagus. The first question that we must ask ourselves is “How to eat in order for the food to make any difference?” A)Eat in a relaxed state of mind, we should never eat in hurry or worry! If we are short on time, it is advisable to rather skip the meal than to simply swallow the food. This can start by a half minute prayer where we thank the universe divine for the food, the sun for its energy, the earth for the soil, the farmer whose labor we’re relishing, and the cook of the food. B) Let our eating become a meditation, be extremely thankful and mindful of the food that’s on our plate. You need to enjoy every bite in with humility and gratitude. C) Count the number of chews, and set yourself a target of 100 chews/bites, this may vary depending upon the type of food/size of the bite but still, the target should be 100 chews. Long after the food is semi-liquid go on counting till 100, this allows you to eat slowly and mindfully and results in more production of saliva. This practice also takes care of how much we eat. The longer we chew, the more time it will take us to finish a meal, and research shows that eating slowly can help us to eat less and, ultimately, to avoid weight gain or even lose weight. For example, chewing our food twice as long as we normally do, will instantly help us control our portion sizes, which naturally decreases calorie consumption. It takes time (generally about 20 minutes) for our brain to signal to our stomach that we ’re full, and this may explain why one study found people reported feeling fuller when they ate slowly.