JOHANNESBURG, January 1 (ANA) – The City of Johannesburg wants an investigation into contractors involved in building some of the houses damaged during a violent storm and heavy rainfall that ripped through parts of the city and outlying areas on Saturday afternoon, leaving two people dead. A number of incidents were reported in parts of the south and west of Johannesburg as a result of the storm, including the structural collapse of parts of the roof and subsequent flooding at the Trade Route Mall in Lenasia. The storm uprooted trees which closed certain roads and also damaged houses, blowing off roofs, and vehicles in various areas, especially in Protea Glen in Soweto. Six people were also injured in a minibus taxi crash on the N12 near Impala Road, while several other minor crashes during the storm were reported. On Sunday, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said the city’s group risk advisory services would conduct a full risk assessment of the damage caused by the storm and a preliminary report was expected to be released by Friday. The report would contain the full extent of the damage caused by the storm and whether the event needed to be declared a provincial or national disaster. Earlier on Sunday, Mashaba conducted an inspection of the damage caused by the storm in Lenasia, Soweto, and Westbury. He also met provincial disaster centre officials and Gauteng provincial departments to chart a way forward for displaced residents. The provincial government was currently providing tents and temporary shelter, food parcels, and blankets to displaced residents. Mashaba said a multi-organisational approach was necessary to address the matter. “Further to this, the city’s group risk advisory services will also conduct an investigation into the quality of some of the buildings which collapsed as a result of the storm, particularly the identities of contractors involved in the construction of some of these buildings; the city’s role in issuing certificates of occupation which affirm the safety of these buildings; and the role of financial institutions, such as lenders and banks, who fund construction of some of these poor buildings,” Mashaba said. This investigation was expected to be completed within the next 60 days. Meanwhile, City Parks and other similar entities were currently clearing debris, stones, and other material blown onto roads during the storm, while the Johannesburg Roads Agency was assessing traffic lights and roads to restore the city to normality. Earlier, Gauteng infrastructure development MEC Jacob Mamabolo said reports had been received that two people had died in Lenasia when a tree fell on top of their car as they were travelling.  At least two people have died as a result of the violent storm and heavy hail and rainfall that hit parts of Johannesburg on Saturday afternoon, Gauteng infrastructure development MEC Jacob Mamabolo said on Sunday.  “We have received reports that two people have died in Lenasia as a result of a tree which fell on top of their car as they were travelling. We pass our sincere condolences to their family,” Mamabolo said at an urgent briefing to provide a province-wide update about the severity and impact of Saturday’s hail storm. A number of incidents were reported in parts of the south and west of Johannesburg as a result of the storm, including the structural collapse of parts of the roof and subsequent flooding at the Trade Route Mall in Lenasia. The storm uprooted trees which closed certain roads and also damaged houses, blowing off roofs, and vehicles in various areas, especially in Protea Glen in Soweto. Six people were also injured in a minibus taxi crash on the N12 near Impala Road, while several other minor crashes during the storm were received. Mamabolo said the Gauteng disaster management team was doing a thorough assessment of the damage, and urged residents and motorists to seriously heed weather warning alerts. Johannesburg and Mogale City were most affected by the storm. He also thanked the mayors of in these municipalities for being hands-on and conducting site visits. The most seriously affected areas were Lenasia, Protea Glen, Westbury, Kagiso on the West Rand, and Bekkersdal, among others. “Government at the moment is providing tents, food parcels, and blankets to those affected by the storm. We are also doing a financial assessment of the extent of the damage of this storm,” Mamabolo said. “There are about 51 RDP houses and 12 shacks that were damaged in Mohlakeng, and what worries us is that the owners of these houses are away on holidays because this is a migrant workers province, so some people have gone to their respective homes and they are not aware that their shacks have been destroyed.” Mamabolo said his department was also contacting other municipalities in the province in a bid to determine how much the storm affected their residents. Meanwhile, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba also confirmed on Twitter that two people died in Lenasia when a tree fell on top of their car. Mashaba said he was trying to have the affected areas declared an emergency in a bid to get emergency funding from national government to assist the communities. “Due to the extent of the damage caused, the city cannot hope to address the needs of all those affected alone. To this end, this afternoon [Sunday] our city teams will meet with the  relevant departments and units from the Gauteng provincial government in order to find ways to address the needs of those most affected,” Mashaba said. Mamabolo said he would brief  premier David Makhura once all reports had been consolidated, and only then could the premier declare parts of the province a disaster area.  Paramedics were called to attend to several incidents during a heavy storm in the south and west of Johannesburg on Saturday afternoon, where parts of the roof collapsed at the Trade Route Mall in Lenasia. “Shortly before 5pm, ER24 responded to a structural collapse in Lenasia,” ER24 spokesman Werner Vermaak said. By the time paramedics arrived on the scene, bystanders indicated that some people had already been transported to nearby hospitals. Local fire and emergency services also attended the scene, he said. According to an African News Agency (ANA) staffer who happened to be at the mall at the time, people were asked to evacuate some of the shops, including some of the cinemas. The Food Lovers’ Market was badly affected when parts of the roof collapsed during the huge downpour. “The water was up to our ankles as they were mopping up the top floor of the mall. The bottom was mostly unaffected, but there were some puddles of water,” the staffer said.  Vermaak said that at the same time, six people were injured in a minibus taxi crash on the N12 near Impala Road. Several of the taxi passengers sustained deep cuts and fractures. Reports of several other minor crashes during the storm were also received, he said.
– African News Agency (ANA),