Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Department of Home Affairs has announced plans to beef up security at the country’s borders as the festive season kicks into full gear. Spokesperson Thabo Mokgola said the plans were set in motion with anticipation of high volumes of travellers crossing the borders. “Learning from past experience, sound planning is critical as we are likely to experience an increase in traveller movements, which exerts additional strain on available resources at ports of entry while posing security risks and dynamics for South Africa and countries with which it shares borders. This makes it necessary to plan for and mitigate against illegal movements and other transgressions,” he said. Mokgola said during the 2015/16 festive period, a total of 5 303 555 movements was captured, comprising arrivals and departures of citizens and foreigners. Of those movements, 3 814 402 were for foreigners. In the 2016/17 festive period, the number rose to 5 504 022 – which is an increase of 200 467 or 3.78%. For 2016/17, movements for foreigners recorded reached 3 944 788. He added that history has taught the department that the border environment is made vulnerable by civilians and officials who facilitate illegal and unauthorised movement, especially during peak periods. “Invariably, this happens where border officials are corrupt, accepting bribes, or where border systems and business processes are manipulated. Government departments and agencies with a border control mandate are taking a joint approach for the festive season operation, informed by the need for collaboration and integrated port operations. Accordingly, the Department of Home Affairs, in consultation with and support from the SA Police Service, will effect enhanced border coordination institutional arrangements, to ensure that the border environment is well managed,” he said. Mokgola said the National Border Management Coordination Committee will assess border control processes at ports of entry over this period and provide situational awareness reports to all relevant stakeholders. Represented on the Coordination Committee are departments and state agencies with a border control mandate – Border Management Authority Project Management Office, SA Police Service, Department of Agriculture, Department of Home Affairs, SARS and the State Security Agency. “The Department of Home Affairs will inspect travel documents, log and refer asylum-seekers to reception centres, facilitate deportations and prevent human trafficking. The SA Police Service will focus on patrols, inspection of vehicles, searches and seizures, profiling, access control at land ports, crowd management, response to crime hits and investigations. The SA Revenue Services will respond to inspection requests in its area, quarantine or confiscate goods as necessary, handover impounded goods and confirm if goods have been correctly declared. The Department of Transport will focus on inspections of cross-border permits, traffic control and adherence to transport regulations. The Department of Health will handle surveillance or screening measures for communicable diseases, inspections on conveyances at ports of entry, quarantine procedures, compliance with import permits and travel health services,” he said. The department will deploy additional staff and extend operating hours for the festive season. Mokgola said operational hours will be extended for busy ports of entry, covering pre-festive season movements, the festive season period and the re-opening of schools, that is, from 6 December 2017 to 16 January 2018. “To ensure reasonable turnaround times and to avoid congestion associated with peak periods, the Department of Home Affairs has deployed additional staff at targeted ports of entry. These are: Lebombo (from 147 to 222), Beitbridge (125 to 215), Maseru Bridge (62 to 107), Ficksburg (34 to 64), Oshoek (38 to 63), OR Tambo International Airport (345 to 370), Groblersbridge (14 to 22), Mahamba (10 to 20), Kopfontein (31 to 34), Ramathlabama (20 to 22), Skilpadshek (15 to 18), Caledonspoort (11 to 17), Van Rooyenshek (12 to 20), Tellebridge (4 to 9) Qachasnek (4 to 8), Kosibay (5 to 10) and Cape Town International Airport (from 68 to 75),” said Mokgola. @karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za